hi everyone laszlo montgomery here china
history podcast once again
part five this time of this overview of
eunuchs throughout the ages
we started in the shang the earliest
times in china that we know was
certainty
that eunuchs existed and as we
progressed along the eunuch history
timeline from treetop level looking down
we reviewed many of the palace eunuchs
immortalized in the official histories
and in popular chinese history
who indelibly marked china's eunuchs as
abominations whose greed and hunger for
power
brought down three dynasties the han the
tongue and the ming
and this time we'll finish off with
china's last and final imperial dynasty
the manchu
qing dynasty 1644-1911
unlike in the case of those other three
dynasties eunuchs alone can't be blamed
for bringing the ching to its knees
there were many other well-known factors
that set the dynasty up for a long
agonizing decline including for the
fortunes of the
ice enduro imperial clan but that
doesn't mean the qing was totally devoid
of hated eunuchs and stories were
telling last episode we saw how three of
the four eunuch dictators
wangjur lyochin and weijong shen
each in their own way made generous
contributions to creating enough
political instability at the top levels
of government to soften up the ming
dynasty to the extent that
by the 1620s it was all over and there
was
nothing anybody could do least of all
the final ming
emperor chong chun who hung himself from
a tree rather than submit to the manchu
invaders
today we'll discuss two eunuchs who rose
to the top and enjoyed a fair degree of
infamy for their deeds during their
times as
chief eunuch in the palace so you can
bet
with all the madness that it transpired
during the ming
allowing the eunuch problem to spiral
out of control not once but four
times the qing rulers
early on made double and triple sure
that those
limited numbers of eunuchs they allowed
into the palace
were never given the opportunity to
interfere in the internal affairs of the
emperor and his court
emperor first ching ruler to reign from
the palace in beijing
and father of kangashi well he minced no
words and in 1655
installed an iron tablet in the
forbidden city
just like the hongwoo emperor did at the
outset of the ming
and this notice board contained a
warning that stated quote
the employment of eunuchs has been a
tradition since ancient times
however their abuses have often led to
disastrous disturbances
they misappropriated power intervened in
government affairs
organized secret agents murdered the
innocent
commanded troops and brought their evil
practices to the border regions
they even engaged in conspiratorial
activities
framed those who were loyal and good
instigated factional struggles
and encouraged fawning and flattery
until the affairs of state
deteriorated day by day and corruption
occurred everywhere from now on
anyone who was guilty of interfering
with government affairs
misappropriating power accepting bribes
involving himself in internal and
external affairs
associating himself with manchu and han
officials
reporting on things which are not his
duty or suggesting whether an official
is good or bad
shall promptly be put to death by
slicing without mercy
this iron tablet is hereby erected so
that it may be observed from generation
to generation
end quote and you can't imagine how many
unemployed ming units were looking for
work at the outset of the qing
some managed to find work at the palace
but overwhelmingly
these former ming eunuchs were deemed
untrustworthy and tainted by all the
damage done by weijong shan
at the tail end of the dynasty the
kangshi
emperor was particularly mindful of
maintaining order in the eunuch ranks
and he didn't go in for any of this
having to run a gauntlet of eunuchs to
hand off memorials to his ministers
he went straight to the tap and did his
official business direct with them
he had set up an office in 1677
to organize the eunuchs and kept them on
a very short leash under the
strict supervision of the imperial
household department
and his son the youngjung emperor he too
gave the eunuchs no room to improvise
and
filled their lives with rules and
stifling regulations
thanks to all the chamber of horrors
committed by eunuchs during the ming
those who served in the palace after
1644 and clear through to the dalguang
emperor the one on duty during the first
opium war
there was never any wiggle room for
eunuchs to get away with any of the
things
their kindred spirits of previous
dynasties did
touching the imperial treasury engaging
in politics
not a chance but remember what i said
about
succession problems regarding the next
emperor or selecting young
or weak-kneed incompetent emperors well
what spinach was to popeye that's what
these circumstances were to
energizing the ambitions of well-placed
palace eunuchs
after the dal guang emperor breathed his
last in 1850
you had the shen fung emperor 19 years
of age when he commenced his sad reign
he was the one married to the most
famous empress dowager in modern chinese
history
sushi and once shen fung became
incapacitated this empress also known as
yehanara shinjun
she pushed him to the side and the next
three emperors
in fact the final three of the whole
dynasty
all began their reigns quite young the
oldest one being the
tongue emperor five years old he was
followed by guangxiu
four years old and puyi was all of two
years old
what more could a eunuch want that was
the time period when the two eunuchs
anda hai and lilian ying operated
yeah they were the shining two stars of
the qing dynasty as far as notorious
eunuchs went
first came on followed right on his
heels by lilian ying
and both of them had the same sponsor
the empress dowager tsushi
and for a small number of eunuchs these
final decades of the qing
dynasty was their magic moment
never were the restrictions more lacks
concerning their behavior
and many were the opportunities for
well-placed eunuchs along the chain of
command
to earn some profits on top of their two
to four
silver tales per month's salary it's
about 50 to 100 bucks
or maybe two to four times that if they
were in
some kind of supervisory role
yeah the words ching chao monyen the
last years of the qing
might evoke all kinds of images of a
dynasty and decay
but for the eunuchs it was anything but
that
never did they have it so nice all those
crushing restrictions from
schwandjer kangshi yongjung
chienlong and others swept under the rug
during the ching these skilled
professionals
called taoza jiangs plied their trade in
their chances or sheds
located in and around the hutongs within
walking distance of the forbidden city
all of these dalts jiang or knifers
were licensed regulated and their trade
was one in which the skill was handed
down from generation to generation
within a family and this kept the
profession
tight secretive and in a way quite safe
there were plenty of doubts of youngs
who were second
third fourth and even fifth generation
in their family to practice this skill
a doudza is a knife and a jiang
is a craftsman or a master in some kind
of profession like carpentry or masonry
or in the case of a
doubts of chiang someone skilled in
emasculating men or
young boys and who could ensure their
survival
there were only two main reasons why
anyone might knock on the door of any
number
of dalton chiang's in beijing to ask for
their services
either poverty and financial desperation
brought them there
or it was delusions of striking it rich
and enjoying a life of comfort in the
palace
but it was poverty more than anything
else that made one consider the doubts a
jungle
poverty was the tree that most often
bore this
particular fruit bitter though it may
have been
no young boy went willingly to this fate
either he was brought to the doubts of
jung's shed
forced against his will by his father
who
sacrificed this child for the sake of
the greater good of the family
or in many cases these boys were
kidnapped and brought there for the fees
that might come to the kidnappers and
finding young emasculates
the doubts of jiang had fine connections
in the forbidden city
so when choosing one not only was the
doubts of chiang skill
in enormous consideration so were his
contacts in the palace that
might guarantee a spot for the new
prospective eunuch
the poorer this emasculated lad the
better
that was how the candidates were viewed
those who had ambition
and ulterior motives and sacrificing
their privates
they were too smart and considered
potentially risky down the line
the palace administration didn't want to
get their hands dirty in this whole
sordid business of prospecting for new
eunuchs so they allowed the
thoughts of chiang to do all this for
them and these knifers or
castrators however you'd like to refer
to them
they would keep a sharp eye open for
those who
checked all the right boxes an
attractive appearance
engaging conversant intelligent
clever but not too clever and physically
strong
and the way things worked so poor were
some of these families handing over
their sons
they couldn't even pay the fees charged
by the doubts of jiang
so after the boy was castrated and went
to work in the palace
he was considered adopted by the doubts
of jiang and for a long
period of time would need to hand over a
portion of his meager income to pay for
the services previously rendered
it was quite a racket and the thoughts
of chiang
came out on top every single time
after the deed had been done the severe
genitals
were stored in a kind of sealed package
of about 24 fluid ounces capacity
the contents of this container was
called a ball
which meant among other definitions a
treasure
it was stored high up on a shelf and was
tagged with the eunuch's personal
details
and you had to keep this bow with you
your whole life and be buried with it
when you died
and if you were careless and lost it or
perhaps forgot to take it with you after
surviving the whole castration procedure
well you had to go back to your
particular delts of jiang and purchase a
replacement which was another nice
source of income for the doubts of
youngs who
always had spare bows just for instances
like these
during the ming the number of eunuchs
who clocked into work every day for the
emperor at its peak
numbered around 100 000 or at least
perhaps eighty thousand
for the qing dynasty the eunuch
population in the palace reached its
greatest number
under chienlong at about three thousand
thirty one hundred and slowly diminished
in numbers to
1700 by the time of the empress dowager
sushi
she was the most powerful political
force in the qing
empire from the death of xianfung to her
own death in 1908.
so let's jump to anda hai who lived 1844
to 1869.
there were plenty of stories rumors and
legends about
his relationship with the empress
dowager he was one of her eunuchs
said to be her favorite and the
whisperings concerning the nature of
their personal relationship is the stuff
of legends
even going so far is to infer that he
was not a eunuch at all and was
fully intact in his nether regions many
scholars insist
they were lovers in the physical sense
and being the number one favorite of the
most
powerful political figure in china the
empress dowager sushi
came with a heck of a lot of perks and
he
loved to flaunt his relationship with
sushi
and like eunuch's past drew no small
amount of hatred from
political enemies who saw him as the
reincarnation of the ghosts of eunuch's
past who were
guilty of all the things the schwinger
emperor warned about at the commencement
of his reign
the emperor's dowager she had her
detractors at court
not everyone was lined up on her side
she couldn't trust the
traditional channels of governance in
the palace and found it more
efficient and effective to use her
eunuchs to
force her way with these officials and
bureaucrats
she had an ally in prince gong gong chen
wang
son of the daokuang emperor and half
brother to the shinfeng
emperor prince gong he served at the
very pinnacle of power in the qing
empire and was the face of china to the
foreign powers during these worst years
for the dynasty
years that the prc government today
unforgivingly
still reminds other nations about he was
an on-again off-again ally of the
emperor's dowager ander hai forever
gained his
mistresses loyalty and esteem through
his critical assistance in the xinyo
jung of november 1861.
this was the palace coup that followed
the death of the xianfeng emperor where
sushi was able to seize power from her
political enemies the
so-called eight regions these eight
regions were eight men who had been
appointed to manage government affairs
while tsushi's son the new emperor tong
jir
was in his minority the shinyoku
launched against these eight regions
successfully i might add
was led by sushi and her allies prince
gong
the xinfang emperor's other empress
as well as the hunan war lord zhang
guofan you all remember him
from that 10 part warlord series
this group put an end to the eight
regions and starting from
that moment at the end of 1861
the old buddha as she was called empress
dowager sushi
she remained the power behind the throne
till the day she died
and anda hai remained at her side
always looking out for her watching her
back
and doing her bidding after seizing
power in 1861
the extravagance and waste exhibited at
her court became one of the great open
secrets of the time
and not just the emperor's dowager
eunuchs too this was a
a whole new day for them and no more
short leash for them
in fact there was no leash at all and so
it happened like it always
is when there's too many expenditures
and not enough income she began to seek
out additional revenue streams to
finance her weakness for
luxury pomp and circumstance and marble
pleasure boats
and anda hai is her representative he
too
began to go about his life as if he was
the lord of ten thousand years
spending lavishly lording it over his
betters
and for this and many other reasons he
became
quite a hated figure in the palace even
prince gong
couldn't stand him if no one has too
many objections i'd like to bring out an
old friend of us all
who i featured in a three-part series
one of my
personal faves i might add sir edmund
trelawny back house
he was a lot closer to those times than
we are in our day and he wrote
extensively on the subject of the qing
dynasty
in general and the life and times of the
emperor's dowager in particular
regarding ando hai and sushi he wrote
quote
ander hai became her faithful henchman
throughout the crisis of the
zeiger and conspiracy and her
intermediary and confidence and
her dealings with the young guardsmen
rong lu
upon her recession to the co-regency he
became her favorite attendant and
emissary
and later her om damnay sharing in all
her ambitious hopes and plans
with no small advantage to himself while
at the same time employing his
undeniable talents to the diversion of
the young widow's mind by the provision
of the
elaborate court pageants and theatrical
entertainments which
her soul loved end quote a quick
interjection
the and conspiracy he writes of was the
shinyoku of 1861 where she seized power
from the eight regions
and rong lu of course another major
figure during the last 15 years of the
dynasty and a favorite of
sushi not to mention the grandfather of
the last emperor puyi
the co-regency back house speaks of was
that of
sushi herself and the other emperor's
daughter
on if you recall from previous episodes
both of these women were consorts to the
xianfeng emperor but only tsushi bore
him a son
who became the tongue emperor again
quoting sir edmund
quote although her edicts frequently
denounce the corrupt and demoralizing
influence of the
rats and foxes who infested her palace
describing them as fawning sycophants
and artful minions
against whom the throne must ever be
sternly vigilant
she nevertheless allowed her favorites
anda hai
to wield an authority only little
inferior to her own
she knew that not only under the mings
but under the han and the tang dynasties
the authority of the sovereign had been
usurped and degraded by these myrmidons
to the ruin of the state
end quote rats and foxes that's how
sushi famously referred to
her palace eunuchs so tsushi
had arranged for anda hai to go on tour
to shandong province to go raise funds
for her diminished treasury this was
strictly forbidden and eunuchs weren't
supposed to leave the environs of
beijing
the outcome of this incident resulted in
a turning point in how she
ruled chyna and in the manner she
carried out her vengeance against her
enemies and rivals
backhouse wrote of this moment in 1869
in
one of his two volumes written together
with j.o.p bland in 1910
i quote in 1869 being short of funds and
desiring to replenish her privy purse
without consulting prince gong
or her colleague the co-regent she
dispatched her favorite anda hai
and a special mission to shandong where
he was to collect tribute in her name
by this time the chief eunuch had
incurred the bitter enmity of several of
the princes of the imperial clan and
especially prince gong
not only because of his growing
influence over sushi but because of his
insolent bearing to all at court on one
occasion the empress had curtly sent
word to prince gong that she could not
grant him an audience because
she was too busy talking to the eunuch
an insult which the prince never forgot
and which cost the favorite his life
besides leading to the disgrace of the
prince and other consequences serious to
the empire
the chief eunuch's illegal mission to
shandong and his outrageous behavior in
that province
provided prince gong with a long sought
opportunity
not only of wreaking vengeance on him
but of creating
rivalry and enmity between the empress's
regent
the governor of shandong an able and
courageous official named ding baojan
who had distinguished himself in the
taiping rebellion was highly incensed at
the arrogant eunuch's assumption of
imperial authority
and being quite oh karong with the
position of affairs in the palace
he reported direct to prince gong and
asked for instructions
the governor's dispatch reached the
prince while sushi was amusing herself
with theatricals
without a moment's delay he sought an
audience with
the co-regent empress and playing upon
her vanity and
weak disposition induced her decided
decree which he drafted in her presence
ordering the eunuch's summary
decapitation the
customary formality of a trial in
beijing being dispensed with
hard-pressed as she was gave her consent
reluctantly and with a clear
pre-sentiment of evil to come from the
wrath of her
masterful colleague the western empress
will assuredly kill me for this
she is reported to have said to the
prince as she handed him the sealed
decree
which gong sent off post haste by
special courier
and with that while sushi was indisposed
watching some
theatrical performance and not wishing
to be disturbed
prince gong and his supporters had ander
hai
executed by decapitation end quote
back house continued with an accounting
of the report sent
following the execution quote ding
baojan
now reports that the eunuch on was
arrested in the taian prefecture
and has been summarily beheaded our
dynasty's house law is most strict in
regard to the proper discipline of
eunuchs
and provides severe punishment for any
offenses which they may commit
they have always been sternly forbidden
to make expeditions to the provinces
or to create trouble nevertheless anda
hai
actually had the brazen effrontery to
violate this law
and for his crimes his execution is only
a fitting reward
in future let all eunuchs take warning
by his example
should we have further cause to complain
the chief eunuchs of the several
departments of the household
will be punished as well as the actual
offender
any eunuch who may hereafter pretend
that he has been sent on imperial
business to the provinces
shall be cast into chains at once and
sent to beijing
for punishment end quote as for the
backlash that followed
it wasn't pretty not for prince gong nor
for the
co-regent empress dowager on who allowed
herself to be talked into signing off on
under high summary execution of the
massive blowout that followed
backhouse wrote quote this event
marked a turning point in the career of
yahuwah nala
who until then had maintained amicable
relations with her less
strong-minded colleague in all the
appearances of equality in the
co-regency
henceforward she devoted more time and
closer attention to affairs of state
consolidating her position
and power with a clear determination to
prevent any
further interference with her supreme
authority
from this time forward she definitely
assumed
the first place as ruler of china
relegating her colleague completely to
the background
end quote which brings us to the last
eunuch of note who i want to
introduce this was li lian ying
he was waiting in the wings acting as
sushi's hair stylist and
confidant and quickly stepped into anda
hai's
shoes once again let me call on the
great back house to
introduce him quote under high was
succeeded in the post of chief eunuch
and confidential attendant on her
majesty by li lian ying
of whom mention has already been made
for the next 40 years
this palace servant was destined to play
a leading part in the government of
china
to hold in his supple hands the lives
and deaths of
thousands to make and unmake the highest
officials of the empire and to levy rich
tribute on the 18 provinces as a youth
of 16 when he
chew jala or left the family as the
chinese euphemistically described the
making of a eunuch
lee was remarkable for his handsome
appearance and good manners
advantages which never failed to carry
weight with sushi
it is recorded on trustworthy authority
that at an early stage in his career
he had so ingratiated himself with her
majesty that he was permitted unusual
liberties
remaining seated in her presence i even
on the throne itself
in the privacy of her apartments he was
allowed to discuss
whatever subjects he chose without being
spoken to
and his years passed and his familiarity
with the old buddha increased
he became her regular and authoritative
advisor on all important state business
in later years when speaking of her
majesty to outsiders
even to high officials he would use the
familiar pronoun
damon meaning we too which is usually
reserved for blood relations or
persons on a footing of familiar
equality and he was currently known
among his followers by the
almost sacrilegious title of lord of
nine thousand years the emperor being
lord of ten thousand
only on solemn state occasions did he
observe the etiquette prescribed for his
class
and a modest demeanor corrupt avaricious
vindictive and fiercely cruel to his
enemies and rivals
it must be said in lee's favor that he
was at least
wholly devoted and faithful to his
imperial mistress and that
at times of peril he never failed to
exert himself to the utmost for her
comfort
and protection he possessed moreover
other good qualities which appealed not
only to sushi but to many of the
high manchu officials who did not
consider it beneath their pride to
throng for admission at his private
residence
he was cheerful fond of a joke an
excellent actor and recounter
and a generous host above all he was
passing rich
at the emperor's dowager's funeral in
november 1909
this aged retainer presented a pathetic
and almost
venerable spectacle enough to make one
forget for a moment the
accumulated horrors of his 70 years of
wickedness
smitten with age and sickness he could
scarcely totter the short distance which
the cortege had to make on foot
but of all that vast throng of officials
and
palace servants he alone showed
unmistakable signs of
deep and genuine grief watching the
intelligent features of this
maker of secret history one could not
but wonder what thoughts were passing
through that
subtle brain as he shuffled past the
pavilion of the diplomatic body
escorting for the last time his great
mistress
the close confidant not to say comrade
of all those long and eventful years
for half a century he had served her
with unremitting zeal and fidelity
no small thing in a country where the
allegiance of servants is so
commonly bought and sold in his youth
it was he who walked and ran beside her
chair as a body servant
through what scenes of splendor and
squalor had they both passed since then
and now he was left alone surrounded by
new faces and confronted by imminent
peril of change
yet in spite of his long life and the
innervating influences of his profession
the old man's powerful physique was by
no means exhausted
too wise to follow in the footsteps of
his unfortunate predecessor
lee never made raids on his own account
into the provinces
nor did he ever attempt to gain or claim
high official rank
remaining prudently content with the
fourth class button
which is the highest grade to which
eunuchs may legally aspire
but under the protection and with the
full knowledge of the empress dowager
he organized a regular system of corvaes
squeezes and deucers levied on every
high official in the empire
the proceeds of which he frequently
shared with the old buddha herself
as shown in another place the empress
and her chief eunuch
practically made common cause and a
common person
collecting tribute and squeezes during
the wanderings of the court in exile
after 1900 at that time the chief eunuch
less fortunate than his mistress had
lost the whole of his buried treasure in
the capital
it had been cashed in a safe place known
only to his
intimate subordinates but one of these
sold the secret to the french troops
who raided the horde a rich booty
one of lee's first steps after the
court's return was to obtain the old
buddha's permission
to have the traitor beheaded which was
done without undue formalities
the chief eunuchs fortune is estimated
by beijing bankers today at about
2 million sterling invested chiefly in
pawn shops and
money changing establishments at the
capitol this sum
represents roughly his share of the
provincial tribute and squeezes
on official appointments for the last
eight years and the total is not
surprising when we
bear in mind that the price of one
official post has been known to bring
him in as much as
three hundred and twenty thousand tails
or say
forty thousand pounds end quote
there's an old story that alleges that
she had muttered on her deathbed
quote be careful not to allow eunuchs to
meddle in government matters
the ming dynasty was brought to ruin by
eunuchs and its fate should be a warning
to my people
end quote well this may be so but she
relied on them as much as any past
emperor
she's remembered for many events in
chinese history and
surely one reason was her unholy
alliances with ander hai
and lilian ying you know there's an old
story that says it was lilian ying
who poisoned the guanxi emperor who died
within 24 hours of
his aunt the emperor's dowager there's
another theory that says it was jen
shirkai who
did the deed worried about what might
happen to him in the event of the
empress dowager's passing lilian ying
he too had a death that was shrouded in
mystery in one version
he died of natural causes on march 4th
1911.
another version says his death was
arranged by your ensure kai
well who's to say his nice tomb out in
the haitian district of northwest
beijing
got a major once over during the
cultural revolution
the red guards didn't let this eunuch
off the hook and
smashed his tomb up but good and when
they got to his remains
the only organic substance contained in
the coffin
was li lian ying's skull what happened
to the rest of them
we'll probably never know well
i don't know about you but it's getting
late around here and i guess we're not
going to get to sunya
ting in this episode i'll just have to
wait till next time and i feel quite
confident that ought to do it for
this topic if i may take one more moment
of your time
may i cordially invite you to support me
and the chp by signing up at patreon.com
slash china history podcast there you'll
find a
bunch of stories already there waiting
for you that detail some of the
incidents from my past
life there's more being added all the
time and whenever i could get these
episodes finished a little early you can
always get a listen a few days prior to
the millions and millions of listeners
who
most patiently wait for the next
regularly scheduled offerings from the
chp
patreon.com slash china history podcast
patreon not your cup of tea hey hit me
up at paypal dot me
slash china history podcast i'll be
equally as thankful
links for both donation methods are to
be found in the show notes
at the episode at tcup.media or in your
uh podcast app
okay that's it for now as usual laszlo
montgomery
signing off from sunny los angeles
california
please consider coming back next time
for another exciting episode
of le podcast surly star de la sheen